# Contributing

First, thank you so much for thinking about contributing to this project!
When I was studying for the exam, I wanted a resource like this to help me study, but I could not find one.
Hopefully, this resource can be helpful to anyone who is interested in taking this test.

I also plan to expand this document in the near future.

There are three main ways to contribute:
* [Open an issue](#open-an-issue)
* [Contribute to the Jupyter Notebooks](#contribute-to-the-jupyter-notebookes)
* [Contribute to the website](#contribute-to-the-website)

In all cases, please be respectful of everyone involved in the project and follow the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Project Structure
This project is made up of a few parts that go together in a particular workflow:
1. The information is contained in Jupyter Notebooks in the `/jupyter/` directory
2. `jupyter nbconvert` and a Python script are used to convert the notebooks into Markdown files
3. In the `/11ty/` directory, [Stylus](https://stylus-lang.com) is used to generate CSS
4. Also in the `/11ty/` directory, the rest of the site is created using [11ty](https://www.11ty.dev)
5. Whenever there is a merge into this repository's `main` branch, a [GitHub Action](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/understanding-github-actions) builds and deploys the website

Therefore, the project can be thought of as being divided between the Python and web sides, with a touch of CI/CD.

## Contributing to the Codebase
If you wish to contribute to the codebase itself, please follow these steps:
1. Fork the project to your own GitHub account.
2. Make the changes in a separate branch in your own fork.
3. When you are happy with your changes, make a [pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) from your fork's branch to this repository's main branch. If the PR fixes an open issue, please include the issue number in the PR, for example by writing "Fixes #123."

## Contributing
As stated earlier, there are three main ways to contribute.
Since two involve contributing to the codebase, please follow these specific instructions when doing so.

### Open an Issue

The easiest way to contribute is to open an issue.
To do so, just follow the [new issues link](https://github.com/andre-a-alves/qiskit-sample-test-answers/issues/new).
Give the issue a meaningful title, and explain your issue in the comment.
Examples of issues could be:
* Identify a bug
* Ask for a feature on the website
* Give a suggestion for a better explanation to one of the questions

All comments and suggestions are welcome.

### Contribute to the Jupyter Notebookes
Begin by following the directions in the [README](README.md#jupyterlab) for running the project in a JupyterLab.
Once you are happy with your changes, just follow the instruction from [Contributing to the Codebase](#contributing-to-the-codebase) to make a pull request.

### Contribute to the Website
The website is built using the static-site generator [11ty](https://www.11ty.dev) with CSS generated by [Stylus](https://stylus-lang.com).
Additionally, the website uses [Carbon Web Components](https://web-components.carbondesignsystem.com/?path=/story/introduction-form-participation--page) to get an IBM look and feel. Markdown is parsed into Carbon Web Components using a custom markdown-it plugin maintained [here](https://github.com/andre-a-alves/markdown-it-carbon-web-components).

After cloning the repo as explained in the [README section on JupyterLab](README.md#jupyterlab), navigate to the `/11ty/` directory.
From there, install the necessary dependencies with `npm install`.

Once the dependancies are installed, you can run a local version of the website by running the command
```bash
npm run serve
```

This will continuously check for changes to the files that make up the website and regenerate both the CSS and HTML.

Once you are happy with your changes, just follow the instruction from [Contributing to the Codebase](#contributing-to-the-codebase) to make a pull request.

## Planned Changes

While they will take time, here are planned changes for the future of this site:
1. Migrate from 11ty to a Vue-based statically-generated single-page web application.
2. Save Jupyter Notebooks in Markdown or MyST  Markdown instead of `.ipynb` for more intuitive version control. This will likely by done by pairing notebooks using Jupytext.
3. Although Qiskit is advancing into 0.4x, the test is for Qiskit 0.2x. Therefore, this project probably needs to downgrade to that version for maximum accuracy. 
4. Add additional study questions that are not part of the official sample test.
5. Finally, it would be nice if one day this site could include an interactive quiz component. The challenge here is that this site is hosted as a static site on GitHub Pages, so the quiz would need to function inside that environment with no backend.